meanwhile Israel's primee Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has been meeting with
the leader of the opposition to discuss
forming a Unity government Phil Marx has
been following that meeting he joins us
now from West Jerusalem so is it now
confirmed villum that this government
has been agreed
to yes it is now confirmed the national
Unity party that is the second largest
opposition party inside the Israeli
knesset with 12 members they have now
formally agreed to join an emergency
government with prime minister Benjamin
netanyahu's leud party and two other
far-right parties inside his Coalition
just to give you some details about it
though Sammy uh in terms of Who's
involved in this there will be what's
known as a war cabinet that's being set
up uh that will involve Netanyahu Benny
gance the former Defense Minister also
the former Chief of Staff of the Israeli
Army and the head of that National Unity
party uh the defense minister yav Galant
as well well as the another former Chief
of Staff of Israeli military g eisenkot
Who belongs to that same National Unity
party and also the former Israeli
Ambassador Ron durma to the United
States uh also from that National Unity
party headed by Benny Gant those five
will form what's known as a security
cabinet they will be the ones
essentially helping to prosecute the war
in we assume Gaza and then there'll be a
wider addition to their political
security cabinet the cabinet here
essentially that will be five members
including those three from the national
Unity party they will be the ones that
will be deciding perhaps larger issues
of policy around perhaps conflict with
Lebanon other issues outside of this
current Conflict at least all right
let's talk about the powers that this
government will
have this will be very much Sammy about
how they strategize and how they execute
on Military orders the idea there will
be a smaller group of individuals just
five of them inside that war cabinet
deciding what the Israeli military does
over the course of the next days and
weeks in theory will be designed to help
speed up decision- making in practice
will mean there'll be perhaps fewer
voices at the table who might have uh
questions around the way things are
being prosecuted what's really important
for Netanyahu of course is to have these
two very experienced men Benny gance and
Mr Eisen Cott both of them former heads
of the Israeli Army sat in that room
with him providing advice and obviously
I would imagine sharing their own
opinions on the best course of action
for the
Israelis and if you can talk us through
the looking at the members who's in the
government you know what happened with
the question of Gant versus it itamar
benav some of the farri members what it
means for the the future of Netanyahu
distill it for us vill as much as you
can right so benir the national security
minister here the head of a far-right
party that allows Mr Netanyahu as prime
minister to have a governing majority
inside the parliament he will remain
inside that broader cabinet that may
have jurisdiction over larger National
conversations but he's being excluded
from that war cabinet he's someone that
seemingly has not been thrilled at the
prospect of this happening but seemingly
Under Pressure either from members of
his own party or more likely from L
could party members those that obviously
work with Netanyahu inside his own party
seems to have backed away from that
moment what that will mean longterm for
Netanyahu really really thorny question
to try and answer it could threaten the
long-term viability though of his
governing majority once this conflict if
this conflict at some point calms down
right thanks so much for the marks there